Artificial Intelligence and Neural networks have already transformed internet technologies across the globe from something useful to something significant in our lives. Artificial intelligence innovations have intervened in all fields ranging from improved health care, where these machines are better suited to the detection of any diseases than any doctor and so on. At the end of 2019, the world was confronted with a widespread problem in the history of humanity: the Coronavirus pandemic (COVID-19). The COVID-19 virus affects the respiratory system and spreads through close contact. According to the World Health Organization, one of the most effective protective measures against the COVID-19 virus is to wear a face mask when in public areas.

Nevertheless, the report presented in our baseline paper as well as a few other papers hold promising results for accurately detecting the wear of face masks on individuals. The goal of this paper is to create a model that accurately determines whether an individual is wearing a mask or not wearing a mask. In this paper, we aimed to explore and test the new detection model and evaluation algorithms and their efficacy on masked faces. We will also used kaggle datasets, to test how our models perform for different groups of people. This project will be done using Python 3.8, NumPy, pandas, sklearn, matplotlib, os, cv2, seaborn, etc. The paper chosen for this project will be used as a baseline for this project. The ultimate aim of this project is to learn.
